README.md, before:

# Galileo Blog

A full-stack blog platform built with **React + Vite**, **Node.js/Express**, **MongoDB (Mongoose)**, **Clerk** for auth, and **ImageKit** for media uploads. It features rich-text editing, infinite scrolling, save/feature posts, comments, and a hardened Clerk webhook pipeline.

> Demo stack highlights: TanStack Query for data fetching, optimistic updates, ImageKit uploads with progress/abort, and Svix-verified Clerk webhooks with idempotent upsert.

---

## Features

- 🔐 **Authentication** with Clerk (email/Google), protected routes, JWT on API calls
- 📝 **Rich text editor** (React Quill) with inline image/video insertion
- 🖼️ **Image/Video upload** via ImageKit (progress, abort; LQIP-ready)
- ♻️ **Data fetching** with TanStack Query (caching, mutations, optimistic updates)
- 🔎 **Infinite scrolling** on the post list
- ⭐ **Save** posts & **Feature** (pin) posts (admin only)
- 💬 **Comments** per post
- 🪝 **Clerk webhooks** (Svix signature verify, idempotent upsert)
- 🛡️ XSS sanitization ready (DOMPurify), Helmet/CORS/rate limit friendly

---

## Tech Stack

**Frontend:** React 19, Vite, React Router, TanStack Query, React Quill, Clerk React, Toastify, Tailwind utility classes, ImageKit  
**Backend:** Node.js, Express, Mongoose, Clerk (server), Svix (webhook verify), ImageKit SDK  
**DB:** MongoDB Atlas (Mongoose models & indexes)

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- MongoDB Atlas cluster
- Clerk application (Frontend Publishable Key & Backend Secret Key)
- ImageKit account (urlEndpoint, publicKey, privateKey)

### Clone & install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/GalileoL/galileo-blog
cd galileo-blog

# backend
cd backend && npm i
npm run dev

# frontend (in another terminal)
cd ../frontend && npm i
npm run dev
```

### Environment Variables

Create `.env` files in both `backend` and `frontend` directories based on the provided `.env.example` files. Ensure you set the required variables like MongoDB URI, Clerk keys, and ImageKit credentials.

### API Endpoints

#### Posts

- `POST /api/posts` – create a post (auth)
- `GET /api/posts?page=1&limit=10` – list with pagination
- `GET /api/posts/:slug` – post detail
- `DELETE /api/posts/:id` – delete (owner/admin)
- `PATCH /api/posts/feature` – toggle "featured" (admin)

#### Comments

- `GET /api/comments/:postId` – list comments
- `POST /api/comments/:postId` – create comment (auth)
- `DELETE /api/comments/:commentId` – delete (owner/admin)

#### Users

- `GET /api/users/saved` – list saved post IDs (auth)
- `PATCH /api/users/save` – toggle save (auth)

#### Webhooks (Clerk)

- `POST /api/webhooks/clerk` – Clerk webhook endpoint (use raw body)

---

## Project Structure

```
galileo-blog/
├── README.md
├── LICENSE
│
├── backend/                        # Node.js/Express API server
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── index.js                    # Express app entry point
│   │
│   ├── controllers/                # Business logic
│   │   ├── comment.controller.js   # Comment CRUD operations
│   │   ├── post.controller.js      # Post CRUD, ImageKit upload auth
│   │   ├── user.controller.js      # User saved posts management
│   │   └── webhook.controller.js   # Clerk webhook handling (Svix verify)
│   │
│   ├── models/                     # Mongoose schemas
│   │   ├── comment.model.js        # Comment schema (user, post, desc)
│   │   ├── post.model.js           # Post schema (title, slug, content, etc.)
│   │   └── user.model.js           # User schema (Clerk integration)
│   │
│   ├── routes/                     # Express route definitions
│   │   ├── comment.route.js        # Comment API routes
│   │   ├── post.route.js           # Post API routes
│   │   ├── user.route.js           # User API routes
│   │   └── webhook.route.js        # Webhook API routes
│   │
│   ├── middlewares/                # Custom middleware
│   │   └── increaseVisit.js        # Post view counter middleware
│   │
│   └── lib/                        # Utility modules
│       └── connectDB.js            # MongoDB connection setup
│
└── frontend/                       # React + Vite client application
    ├── package.json
    ├── index.html
    ├── vite.config.js
    ├── eslint.config.js
    ├── README.md
    │
    ├── public/                     # Static assets
    │   ├── favicon.ico
    │   ├── logo.png
    │   ├── *.svg                   # Social media icons
    │   └── *.jpeg                  # Featured post images
    │
    └── src/                        # React source code
        ├── main.jsx                # React app entry point
        ├── App.jsx                 # Root component
        ├── App.css
        ├── index.css
        │
        ├── assets/                 # Static assets
        │   └── react.svg
        │
        ├── components/             # Reusable components
        │   ├── index.js            # Barrel exports
        │   │
        │   ├── imagekit/           # ImageKit integration
        │   │   ├── IKImage.jsx     # ImageKit image component
        │   │   └── IKUpload.jsx    # ImageKit upload component
        │   │
        │   ├── skeletons/          # Loading skeletons
        │   │   ├── FeaturePostsSkeleton.jsx
        │   │   ├── PostListSkeleton.jsx
        │   │   └── Skeleton.jsx
        │   │
        │   └── ui/                 # UI components
        │       ├── Comment.jsx     # Individual comment display
        │       ├── Comments.jsx    # Comments list & form
        │       ├── FeaturePosts.jsx # Featured posts showcase
        │       ├── MainCategories.jsx # Category navigation
        │       ├── NaviBar.jsx     # Top navigation
        │       ├── PostList.jsx    # Infinite scroll post list
        │       ├── PostListItem.jsx # Single post item
        │       ├── PostMenuActions.jsx # Save/Feature/Delete actions
        │       ├── Search.jsx      # Search functionality
        │       └── SideMenu.jsx    # Mobile navigation menu
        │
        ├── layouts/                # Layout components
        │   ├── index.js            # Barrel exports
        │   └── MainLayout.jsx      # Main app layout
        │
        └── pages/                  # Page components (routes)
            ├── index.js            # Barrel exports
            ├── HomePage.jsx        # Landing page
            ├── LoginPage.jsx       # Authentication page
            ├── NotFoundPage.jsx    # 404 error page
            ├── PostListPage.jsx    # Posts listing with filters
            ├── RegisterPage.jsx    # User registration
            ├── SinglePostPage.jsx  # Individual post view
            └── WritePage.jsx       # Rich text post editor
```

---

## Frontend Highlights

- **TanStack Query** for queries & mutations
  - optimistic updates + rollback on error (feature/save)
  - invalidation on settle for eventual consistency
- **React Quill** lazy-loaded via `React.lazy` + `Suspense` to reduce first load
- **ImageKit uploads** with progress/abort; recommended to enable LQIP + responsive `srcset`
- **Skeletons/placeholders** to improve perceived performance

---

## Security & Hardening

- Sanitize HTML content with **DOMPurify** before rendering/storing
- Add **Helmet**, **CORS whitelist**, and **express-rate-limit** in production
- **Mongoose schema validation** and indexes
  - `User.clerkUserId` unique index
  - `Post.slug` unique index

Commit message:

feat: restructure frontend build system to support both Vite and Webpack
- Updated package.json to include new scripts for Webpack development and production builds.
- Added Babel configuration for modern JavaScript and React support.
- Created base, development, production, and DLL Webpack configurations.
- Removed unused SVG and image files from the public directory.
- Updated component and page imports to use .jsx extensions.
- Configured Vite to output to a separate directory.
- Enhanced Webpack configurations with CSS minimization and bundle analysis.

README.md, after:

# Galileo Blog

This project is for exercise purposes only and is not intended for production use.
Some features may not be fully implemented or tested.
And the data is just for demo purposes.

TBD: After information review by Alibaba Cloud and the internet filing process in China, the project will be launched for preview.

A full-stack blog platform built with **React + Vite**, **Node.js/Express**, **MongoDB (Mongoose)**, **Clerk** for auth, and **ImageKit** for media uploads. It features rich-text editing, infinite scrolling, save/feature posts, comments, and a hardened Clerk webhook pipeline.

> Demo stack highlights: TanStack Query for data fetching, optimistic updates, ImageKit uploads with progress/abort, and Svix-verified Clerk webhooks with idempotent upsert.

---

## Features

- 🔐 **Authentication** with Clerk (email/Google), protected routes, JWT on API calls
- 📝 **Rich text editor** (React Quill) with inline image/video insertion
- 🖼️ **Image/Video upload** via ImageKit (progress, abort; LQIP-ready)
- ♻️ **Data fetching** with TanStack Query (caching, mutations, optimistic updates)
- 🔎 **Infinite scrolling** on the post list
- ⭐ **Save** posts & **Feature** (pin) posts (admin only)
- 💬 **Comments** per post
- 🪝 **Clerk webhooks** (Svix signature verify, idempotent upsert)
- 🛡️ XSS sanitization ready (DOMPurify), Helmet/CORS/rate limit friendly

---

## Tech Stack

**Frontend:** React 19, Vite, React Router, TanStack Query, React Quill, Clerk React, Toastify, Tailwind utility classes, ImageKit  
**Backend:** Node.js, Express, Mongoose, Clerk (server), Svix (webhook verify), ImageKit SDK  
**DB:** MongoDB Atlas (Mongoose models & indexes)

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- MongoDB Atlas cluster
- Clerk application (Frontend Publishable Key & Backend Secret Key)
- ImageKit account (urlEndpoint, publicKey, privateKey)

### Clone & install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/GalileoL/galileo-blog
cd galileo-blog

# backend
cd backend && npm i
npm run dev

# frontend (in another terminal)
cd ../frontend && npm i
npm run dev
```

### Environment Variables

Create `.env` files in both `backend` and `frontend` directories based on the provided `.env.example` files. Ensure you set the required variables like MongoDB URI, Clerk keys, and ImageKit credentials.

### API Endpoints

#### Posts

- `POST /api/posts` – create a post (auth)
- `GET /api/posts?page=1&limit=10` – list with pagination
- `GET /api/posts/:slug` – post detail
- `DELETE /api/posts/:id` – delete (owner/admin)
- `PATCH /api/posts/feature` – toggle "featured" (admin)

#### Comments

- `GET /api/comments/:postId` – list comments
- `POST /api/comments/:postId` – create comment (auth)
- `DELETE /api/comments/:commentId` – delete (owner/admin)

#### Users

- `GET /api/users/saved` – list saved post IDs (auth)
- `PATCH /api/users/save` – toggle save (auth)

#### Webhooks (Clerk)

- `POST /api/webhooks/clerk` – Clerk webhook endpoint (use raw body)

---

## Project Structure

```
galileo-blog/
├── README.md
├── LICENSE
│
├── backend/                        # Node.js/Express API server
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── index.js                    # Express app entry point
│   │
│   ├── controllers/                # Business logic
│   │   ├── comment.controller.js   # Comment CRUD operations
│   │   ├── post.controller.js      # Post CRUD, ImageKit upload auth
│   │   ├── user.controller.js      # User saved posts management
│   │   └── webhook.controller.js   # Clerk webhook handling (Svix verify)
│   │
│   ├── models/                     # Mongoose schemas
│   │   ├── comment.model.js        # Comment schema (user, post, desc)
│   │   ├── post.model.js           # Post schema (title, slug, content, etc.)
│   │   └── user.model.js           # User schema (Clerk integration)
│   │
│   ├── routes/                     # Express route definitions
│   │   ├── comment.route.js        # Comment API routes
│   │   ├── post.route.js           # Post API routes
│   │   ├── user.route.js           # User API routes
│   │   └── webhook.route.js        # Webhook API routes
│   │
│   ├── middlewares/                # Custom middleware
│   │   └── increaseVisit.js        # Post view counter middleware
│   │
│   └── lib/                        # Utility modules
│       └── connectDB.js            # MongoDB connection setup
│
└── frontend/                       # React + Vite client application
    ├── package.json
    ├── index.html
    ├── vite.config.js
    ├── eslint.config.js
    ├── README.md
    │
    ├── public/                     # Static assets
    │   ├── favicon.ico
    │   ├── logo.png
    │   ├── *.svg                   # Social media icons
    │   └── *.jpeg                  # Featured post images
    │
    └── src/                        # React source code
        ├── main.jsx                # React app entry point
        ├── App.jsx                 # Root component
        ├── App.css
        ├── index.css
        │
        ├── assets/                 # Static assets
        │   └── react.svg
        │
        ├── components/             # Reusable components
        │   ├── index.js            # Barrel exports
        │   │
        │   ├── imagekit/           # ImageKit integration
        │   │   ├── IKImage.jsx     # ImageKit image component
        │   │   └── IKUpload.jsx    # ImageKit upload component
        │   │
        │   ├── skeletons/          # Loading skeletons
        │   │   ├── FeaturePostsSkeleton.jsx
        │   │   ├── PostListSkeleton.jsx
        │   │   └── Skeleton.jsx
        │   │
        │   └── ui/                 # UI components
        │       ├── Comment.jsx     # Individual comment display
        │       ├── Comments.jsx    # Comments list & form
        │       ├── FeaturePosts.jsx # Featured posts showcase
        │       ├── MainCategories.jsx # Category navigation
        │       ├── NaviBar.jsx     # Top navigation
        │       ├── PostList.jsx    # Infinite scroll post list
        │       ├── PostListItem.jsx # Single post item
        │       ├── PostMenuActions.jsx # Save/Feature/Delete actions
        │       ├── Search.jsx      # Search functionality
        │       └── SideMenu.jsx    # Mobile navigation menu
        │
        ├── layouts/                # Layout components
        │   ├── index.js            # Barrel exports
        │   └── MainLayout.jsx      # Main app layout
        │
        └── pages/                  # Page components (routes)
            ├── index.js            # Barrel exports
            ├── HomePage.jsx        # Landing page
            ├── LoginPage.jsx       # Authentication page
            ├── NotFoundPage.jsx    # 404 error page
            ├── PostListPage.jsx    # Posts listing with filters
            ├── RegisterPage.jsx    # User registration
            ├── SinglePostPage.jsx  # Individual post view
            └── WritePage.jsx       # Rich text post editor
```

---

## Frontend Highlights

- **TanStack Query** for queries & mutations
  - optimistic updates + rollback on error (feature/save)
  - invalidation on settle for eventual consistency
- **React Quill** lazy-loaded via `React.lazy` + `Suspense` to reduce first load
- **ImageKit uploads** with progress/abort; recommended to enable LQIP + responsive `srcset`
- **Skeletons/placeholders** to improve perceived performance

---

## Security & Hardening

- Sanitize HTML content with **DOMPurify** before rendering/storing
- Add **Helmet**, **CORS whitelist**, and **express-rate-limit** in production
- **Mongoose schema validation** and indexes
  - `User.clerkUserId` unique index
  - `Post.slug` unique index
